---
layout: post
title: Story
---
{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_52.jpg" %}

The Columbus Letter: a great treasure for antiquity lovers
====================

Tasteful anecdotes are related to the diffusion and conservation of 
the copies of the Columbus Letter. During the XIX century, when 
bibliophilism was the hobby of the elite, the edition was a great 
and hunted treasure. Due to the great price results that the edition
was totalizing at auctions and the relative ease in creating 
counterfeits, a great number of forgers tried to sell reprinted
editions as originals. A forged copy was also proposed to the
National Library. The forger asked for an insanely high price, a sum
that the library could not afford to pay at that time. When the
antiquarian heard of the rejection of his proposal, he fouriously
teared the copy in front of the librarians. Later that day they
collected the fragments and discovered that the expensive
letter was just another well-conceived copy.

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_26.jpg" %}

More recently, in May 2016, it was discovered that the copy of the 
Columbus letter conserved at the Congress library had previously 
been stolen by a Florence public library and substituted by a copy. 
The thieves could have stolen the exemplar back into the 50’ and 
nobody discovered the fact until some scholars noticed some 
printing errors while they were conducting a research on the 
exemplar. The Library of Congress sent immediately the copy back to 
Italy but there are still a lot of doubts on the identity of the 
criminal. The attention that forgers and thieves have regarded even 
in recent times to the letter is related to its extreme commercial 
rarity and high economic value. The last time the copy appeared in 
auction, at Christie’s in 1992, totalized 330,000$.

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_18.jpg" %}

The story behind the first chapter of American History
---

The Columbus letter is the narration, written by Columbus himself 
and addressed to the king of Spain, of its first voyage to the new 
world and its discoveries. The letter was written the 15 February 
1493 by the admiral while he was in his way back to Spain aboard 
the Caravel Nina. It is addressed to the king of Spain and to Louis 
the Santander, the financial minister that decided to fund the 
expedition of the Italian explorer. It is the first written witness 
by newcomers on America and this Latin edition was instrumental in 
spreading the news throughout Europe about Columbus's voyage. It 
was printed in Rome by Stephen Plannck in May 1493 and they were 
produced more than 3000 copies, making it one of the bestsellers of 
its time.

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_17.jpg" %}

The letter was also used as a political instrument by Spanish 
government in order to claim possession of the lands recently 
discovered. There were in fact some controversies with the Portugal 
kingdom upon the respective expansions areas previously stated in 
the treaty of Alcacovas in 1479. The letter probably helped the 
Spanish kingdom to impose their vision thanks to the great 
influence that it exercised on the public and on pope Alexander VI. 
Was the Pope in fact that helped to prepare the famous Treaty of 
Tortesillas, signed in 1494 that partitioned the globe between 
Spanish and Portuguese spheres of exclusivity at a longitude line 
370 leagues west of Cape Verde.

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_21.jpg" %}

It is difficult to imagine what were the emotions and the dreams 
that Columbus description of his voyage and his discoveries 
generated in the souls of Europeans. In the letter, Columbus wrote 
about the nine island he encountered in its way and described with 
accuracy the population and the natural characteristics of the new 
lands. The tone of the letter is enthusiastic. It is difficult for 
us to imagine the emotions Colombo felt when he was writing to the 
king of Spain reporting that he had just discovered the coveted way 
to India. Of course it wasn't India but now we know how much more 
important Columbus discovery was. In the letter the entrepreneurial 
attitude of Columbus appeared. In his thought he did not discover a 
simple geographical entity but a territory in which people could 
easily be settled and start working in order to build a new 
and better world, the famous Eden on earth. It is interesting to 
notice in Columbus expressions the hopeful tone that would had been 
present, centuries later, in the “American Dream” image that leaded 
millions of Europeans to leave their homes for the new world in 
order to finally build the great country of hopes and dreams that 
Colombo had already dreamed about.

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_14.jpg" %}

