---
layout: post
title: Who we are
---

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_33.jpg" %}

Who we are and our mission
==========

We are Matteo Barbuti and Riccardo Crippa, two Italian graduate 
students with a great interest and focus for history and cultures 
diffusion. Riccardo is also an antique book expert and he had the 
opportunity to work for some of the most important dealers and auction 
houses in the sector where he discovered the quality of old printing 
and the emotions that antique books can inspire. The idea of 
reproducing the Columbus Letter surged after observing the reactions 
that people had reading and admiring the pages of an antique text. Even 
if they are extremely fascinated and attracted by the beauty and 
meaningfulness of the text they still felt a significant gap between 
them, caused by the idea that Bibliophile is a hobby for a small elite. 
Even if public libraries try to attract people and make them discover 
their antique and precious treasures the barrier is always hard to 
overpass. For this reason, we started thinking about the best possible 
way to diffuse the knowledge and fascination on antique texts to a 
broader public. We finally decided to make antique books physically 
reachable by everyone reprinting them with the same techniques and 
materials as those employed centuries ago by typographers. We strove to 
make it as accurate as possible and to keep the lowest prices in order 
to give to everybody the chance to purchase it.


{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_56.jpg" %}

Whom is the project addressed to?
=================================
Our project has the intention to appeal to everyone interested in 
discovering his heritage through a direct interaction with a document 
that had made History. Moreover, we appeal to people interested in the 
history of publishing and in well curated editorial products. The 
edition of the Columbus Letter is certainly a nice way to properly 
celebrate the Columbus day and discover a milestone in American history 
that too often is forget. We see it also as a nice way to present 
historical documents to the young generation and make them reflecting 
about the past through a direct contact with an historical testimony.

{% include intermezzo.html photo="columbus_23.jpg" %}
